<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Diagnostic Imaging Report - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>ClinicalDocument</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="knownSubclasses">
</section>
<section id="description">
<p>A Diagnostic Imaging Report (DIR) is a document that contains a consulting specialist's interpretation of image data.  It conveys the interpretation to the referring (ordering) physician and becomes part of the patient's medical record.  It is for use in Radiology, Endoscopy, Cardiology, and other imaging specialties.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>templateId</b></tt> ( CONF:8404, CONF:10042 ) such that it <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@root</b>="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5"</tt></li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.consol.doc/classes/GeneralHeaderConstraints.html">General Header Constraints</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1</tt>)</li>
<li>
<b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:14833), which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> DIRDocumentTypeCodes 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.32</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:14834)<p>Given that DIR documents may be transformed from established collections of imaging reports already stored with their own type codes, there is no static set of Document Type codes. The set of LOINC codes listed in the DIR LOINC Document Type Codes table may be extended by additions to LOINC and supplemented by local codes as translations.
The DIR document recommends use of a single document type code, 18748-4 "Diagnostic Imaging Report", with further specification provided by author or performer, setting, or specialty. Some of these codes in the DIR LOINC Document Type Codes table are pre-coordinated with either the imaging modality, body part examined, or specific imaging method such as the view.  Use of these codes is not recommended, as this duplicates information potentially present with the header. When pre-coordinated codes are used, any coded values describing the author or performer of the service act or the practice setting must be consistent with the LOINC document type. This table is drawn from LOINC Version 2.36, June 30, 2011, and consists of codes whose scale is DOC and that refer to reports for diagnostic imaging procedures.</p>
</li>
<li>
<b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5363)
</li>
<li>
<b>SHALL</b> contain  [0..0] <tt><b>informant</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8410)<ol>
<li>Conforms to Informant12 from CDA</li></ol>
</li>
<li>
<b>MAY</b> contain  [0..*] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8411)<ol><li><p>The physician requesting the imaging procedure (ClincalDocument/participant[@typeCode=REF]/associatedEntity), if present, SHOULD also be recorded as an informationRecipient, unless in the local setting another physician (such as the attending physician for an inpatient) is known to be the appropriate recipient of the report.</p></li><li><p>When no referring physician is present, as in the case of self-referred screening examinations allowed by law, the intendedRecipient MAY be absent. The intendedRecipient MAY also be the health chart of the patient, in which case the receivedOrganization SHALL be the scoping organization of that chart.</p></li>
<li>Conforms to Information Recipient from CDA</li></ol>
</li>
<li>
<b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>participant</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8414) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>associatedEntity</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8415) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>associatedPerson</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8415) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:9406)</li></ol></li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li>
<b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>inFulfillmentOf</b></tt> such that it  <p><lines><i>An inFulfillmentOf element represents the Placer Order that is either a group of orders (modeled as PlacerGroup in the Placer Order RMIM of the Orders and Observations domain) or a single order item (modeled as ObservationRequest in the same RMIM).  This optionality reflects two major approaches to the grouping of procedures as implemented in the installed base of imaging information systems.  These approaches differ in their handling of grouped procedures and how they are mapped to identifiers in the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) image and structured reporting data.  The example of a CT examination covering chest, abdomen, and pelvis will be used in the discussion below.
In the IHE Scheduled Workflow model, the Chest CT, Abdomen CT, and Pelvis CT each represent a Requested Procedure, and all three procedures are grouped under a single Filler Order.  The Filler Order number maps directly to the DICOM Accession Number in the DICOM imaging and report data.
A widely deployed alternative approach maps the requested procedure identifiers directly to the DICOM Accession Number.  The Requested Procedure ID in such implementations may or may not be different from the Accession Number, but is of little identifying importance because there is only one Requested Procedure per Accession Number.  There is no identifier that formally connects the requested procedures ordered in this group.
In both cases, inFulfillmentOf/order/id is mapped to the DICOM Accession Number in the imaging data.</i></lines></p> 
</li>
<li>
<b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>documentationOf</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8416) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>serviceEvent</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8431) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="ACT" </tt><i>Act</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:8430)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:8419)<p><lines><i>The value of serviceEvent/code SHALL NOT conflict with the ClininicalDocument/code. When transforming from DICOM SR documents that do not contain a procedure code, an appropriate nullFlavor SHALL be used on serviceEvent/code.</i></lines></p></li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:8418)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>performer</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../PhysicianReadingStudyPerformer.dita">Physician Reading Study Performer</xref> (CONF:8422)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li>
<b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>relatedDocument</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8432) <p><lines><i>When a Diagnostic Imaging Report has been transformed from a DICOM SR document, relatedDocument/@typeCode SHALL be XFRM, and relatedDocument/parentDocument/id SHALL contain the SOP Instance UID of the original DICOM SR document.</i></lines></p><ol><li>The relatedDocument/id/@root attribute <b>SHALL</b> be a syntactically correct OID, and <b>SHALL NOT</b> be a UUID. (CONF:10030)</li></ol> 
</li>
<li>
<b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>componentOf</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8434) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>encompassingEncounter</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8449) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:8437)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:8435)<p><lines><i>In the case of transformed DICOM SR documents, an appropriate null flavor MAY be used if the id is unavailable.</i></lines></p></li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>encounterParticipant</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../PhysicianofRecordParticipant.dita">Physicianof Record Participant</xref> (CONF:8448)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>responsibleParty</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8438) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:9407) <ol><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] assignedPerson OR contain zero or one [0..1] representedOrganization (CONF:8439)</li></ol></li></ol></li><li>The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day (CONF:10133, CONF:10127)</li><li>The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the minute (CONF:10133, CONF:10128)</li><li>The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>MAY</b> be precise to the second (CONF:10133, CONF:10129)</li><li>The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). If more precise than day, <b>SHOULD</b> include time-zone offset (CONF:10133, CONF:10130)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li>
<b>SHALL</b> contain  [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:9484)<ol>
<li>Conforms to <xref href="../FindingsSection.dita">Findings Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.2</tt>)</li></ol>
</li>
<li>
<b>SHOULD</b> contain  [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:15141)<ol>
<li>Conforms to <xref href="../DICOMObjectCatalogSection.dita">DICOM Object Catalog Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1</tt>)</li></ol>
</li>
<li>This code <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] @code="18748-4" Diagnostic Imaging Report (CodeSystem: LOINC2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) (CONF:8409)</li>
<li>The DICOM Object Catalog section (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), if present, <b>SHALL</b> be the first section in the document Body</li>
<li>With the exception of the DICOM Object Catalog (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), all sections within the Diagnostic Imaging Report content <b>SHOULD</b> contain a title element (CONF:9409)</li>
<li>The section/code <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from LOINC or DICOM for sections not listed in the DIR Section Type Codes table (CONF:9410)</li>
<li>All sections defined in the DIR Section Type Codes table <b>SHALL</b> be top-level sections (CONF:9411)</li>
<li>A section element <b>SHALL</b> have a code element which <b>SHALL</b> contain a LOINC code or DCM code for sections which have no LOINC equivalent. This only applies to sections described inthe DIR Section Type Codes table (CONF:9412)</li>
<li>Apart from the DICOM Object Catalog (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), all other instances of section <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one text element or one or more component elements (CONF:9413)</li>
<li>All text or component elements <b>SHALL</b> contain content. text elements <b>SHALL</b> contain PCDATA or child elements, and component elements <b>SHALL</b> contain child elements (CONF:9414)</li>
<li>The text elements (and their children) <b>MAY</b> contain Web Access to DICOM Persistent Object (WADO) references to DICOM objects by including a linkHtml element where @href is a valid WADO URL and the text content of linkHtml is the visible text of the hyperlink</li>
<li>If clinical statements are present, the section/text <b>SHALL</b> represent faithfully all such statements and <b>MAY</b> contain additional text</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.consol.doc/classes/GeneralHeaderConstraints.html">General Header Constraints</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>realmCode</b></tt><tt><b>/@code</b>="US" </tt> (CONF:16791)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>typeId</b></tt> (CONF:5361, R2.1=CONF:1198-5361)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5363)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:14833), which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> DIRDocumentTypeCodes 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.32</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:14834)
<p>Given that DIR documents may be transformed from established collections of imaging reports already stored with their own type codes, there is no static set of Document Type codes. The set of LOINC codes listed in the DIR LOINC Document Type Codes table may be extended by additions to LOINC and supplemented by local codes as translations.
The DIR document recommends use of a single document type code, 18748-4 "Diagnostic Imaging Report", with further specification provided by author or performer, setting, or specialty. Some of these codes in the DIR LOINC Document Type Codes table are pre-coordinated with either the imaging modality, body part examined, or specific imaging method such as the view.  Use of these codes is not recommended, as this duplicates information potentially present with the header. When pre-coordinated codes are used, any coded values describing the author or performer of the service act or the practice setting must be consistent with the LOINC document type. This table is drawn from LOINC Version 2.36, June 30, 2011, and consists of codes whose scale is DOC and that refer to reports for diagnostic imaging procedures.</p></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>title</b></tt> (CONF:5254)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:5256, R2.1=CONF:1198-5256) <p><lines><i>Signifies the document creation time, when the document first came into being. Where the CDA document is a transform from an original document in some other format, the ClinicalDocument.effectiveTime is the time the original document is created. The time when the transform occurred is not currently represented in CDA</i></lines></p>
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>confidentialityCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> HL7 BasicConfidentialityKind 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.16926</tt><b> STATIC</b> 2010-04-21 (CONF:5259, R2.1=CONF:1198-5259)
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>languageCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Language 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.11526</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5372, R2.1=CONF:1198-5372, DSTU:806)
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>setId</b></tt> (CONF:5261, R2.1=CONF:1198-5261)
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>versionNumber</b></tt> (CONF:5264, R2.1=CONF:1198-5264)
</li>
<li>contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt>, where its type is Component2
<ol>
<li>Conforms to Component2</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>recordTarget</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5266) <p><lines><i>The recordTarget records the patient whose health information is described by the clinical document; it must contain at least one patientRole element.</i></lines></p><ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>patientRole</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5268) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5268, R2.1=CONF:1198-5268)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5271, R2.1=CONF:1198-5271)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> (CONF:5280, R2.1=CONF:1198-5280)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>patient</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:1198-5283) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5284, CONF:10411, R2.1=CONF:1198-5284, DSTU:808)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>administrativeGenderCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Administrative Gender (HL7 V3) 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.1</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:6394, R2.1=CONF:1198-6394)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>birthTime</b></tt> (CONF:5298)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>maritalStatusCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> HL7 Marital Status 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.12212</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5303, R2.1=CONF:1198-5303)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>religiousAffiliationCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> HL7 Religious Affiliation 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.19185</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5317, R2.1=CONF:1198-5317)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>raceCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Race 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.14914</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5322)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>sDTCRaceCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Race 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.14914</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:7263, R2.1=CONF:1198-7263)<p><lines><i>Note: The sdtc:raceCode is only used to record additional values when the patient has indicated multiple races or additional race detail beyond the five categories required for Meaningful Use Stage 2. The prefix sdtc: SHALL be bound to the namespace "urn:hl7-org:sdtc". The use of the namespace provides a necessary extension to CDA R2 for the use of the additional raceCode elements.</i></lines></p></li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>ethnicGroupCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Ethnicity Value Set 2.16.840.1.114222.4.11.837</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5323)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>guardian</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5325) <ol><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:5326)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5359, CONF:10413, R2.1=CONF:1198-5359)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt></li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>guardianPerson</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5385, R2.1=CONF:1198-5385) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5386, R2.1=CONF:1198-5386)</li><li>The content of name <b>SHALL</b> be a conformant US Realm Person Name (PTN.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.1.1) (CONF:10414, R2.1=CONF:1198-5386)</li></ol></li><li>The guardian code, if present, <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet PersonalRelationshipRoleType 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.19563 DYNAMIC or ValueSet Responsible Party 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.19830 DYNAMIC (CONF:5326)</li></ol></li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>birthplace</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5395) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>place</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5396) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5397, R2.1=CONF:1198-5397)</li><li>This addr <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] country, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet Country 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.63 DYNAMIC (CONF:1198-5404, R2.1=CONF:1198-5404)</li><li>This addr <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] postalCode, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet PostalCodeValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.2 DYNAMIC (CONF:5403, R2.1=CONF:1198-5403)</li><li>If country is US, this addr <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] state, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet StateValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.80.1 DYNAMIC (CONF:5402)</li></ol></li></ol></li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>languageCommunication</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5406) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>languageCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Language 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.11526</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:5407, DSTU:806)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>modeCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> HL7 LanguageAbilityMode 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.12249</tt><b> STATIC</b> 1 (CONF:5409, R2.1=CONF:1198-5409)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>proficiencyLevelCode</b></tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> LanguageAbilityProficiency 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.12199</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:9965, R2.1=CONF:1198-9965)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>preferenceInd</b></tt> (CONF:5414)</li></ol></li><li>If sdtc:raceCode is present, then the patient <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] raceCode (CONF:31347, R2.1=CONF:1198-31347)</li></ol></li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>providerOrganization</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5416, R2.1=CONF:1198-5416) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5417, R2.1=CONF:1198-5417)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5419, R2.1=CONF:1198-5419)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> (CONF:5420, R2.1=CONF:1198-5420)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5422, R2.1=CONF:1198-5422)</li><li>The id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1] id where id/@root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:9996, R2.1=CONF:1198-16820)</li></ol></li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>componentOf</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:9955) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>encompassingEncounter</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:9956) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:9959, R2.1=CONF:1198-9959)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:9958, R2.1=CONF:1198-9958)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>author</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5444) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>time</b></tt> (CONF:5445, R2.1=CONF:1198-5445) <p><lines><i>The content SHALL be a conformant US Realm Date and Time (DTM.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4) (CONF:16866).</i></lines></p><p><lines><i>The content SHALL be a conformant US Realm Date and Time (DTM.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4) (CONF:16866).</i></lines></p></li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedAuthor</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5448) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5449, R2.1=CONF:1198-5449)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:16787), which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Healthcare Provider Taxonomy (HIPAA) 2.16.840.1.114222.4.11.1066</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:16788)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5452, R2.1=CONF:1198-5452)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> (CONF:5428, R2.1=CONF:1198-5428)</li><li>contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>assignedAuthoringDevice</b></tt> such that it  <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>manufacturerModelName</b></tt> (CONF:16784, R2.1=CONF:1198-16784)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>softwareName</b></tt> (CONF:16785, R2.1=CONF:1198-16785)</li></ol></li><li>contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> such that it  <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:16789, R2.1=CONF:1198-16789)</li></ol></li><li>There <b>SHALL</b> be exactly one assignedAuthor/assignedPerson or exactly one assignedAuthor/assignedAuthoringDevice (CONF:16790, R2.1=CONF:1198-16790)</li><li>If this assignedAuthor is an assignedPerson, the assignedAuthor <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero to one [0..1] id 'such that it': <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] @nullFlavor="UNK" Unknown (CodeSystem: HL7NullFlavor 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1008), <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] @root="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier, and <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] @extension (CONF:31135, CONF:31694, R2.1=CONF:1198-32882, R2.1=CONF:1198-32883, R2.1=CONF:1198-32884, R2.1=CONF:1198-32885)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>dataEnterer</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5441) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5442) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5443, R2.1=CONF:1198-5443)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.101 NUCC Health Care Provider Taxonomy</tt>) (CONF:9944)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5460, R2.1=CONF:1198-5460)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> (CONF:5466, R2.1=CONF:1198-5466)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5469, R2.1=CONF:1198-5469) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5470, R2.1=CONF:1198-5470)</li></ol></li><li>id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1] @root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:16821, R2.1=CONF:1198-16821)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>custodian</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5519) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedCustodian</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5520, R2.1=CONF:1198-5520) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>representedCustodianOrganization</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5521, R2.1=CONF:1198-5521) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5522, R2.1=CONF:1198-5522)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5524, R2.1=CONF:1198-5524)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> (CONF:5525, R2.1=CONF:1198-5525)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5559, R2.1=CONF:1198-5559)</li><li>The id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1] @root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:16822, R2.1=CONF:1198-16822)</li></ol></li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5565) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>intendedRecipient</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5566) <ol><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>informationRecipient</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5568, R2.1=CONF:1198-5567) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5470, R2.1=CONF:1198-5568)</li></ol></li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>receivedOrganization</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5577, R2.1=CONF:1198-5577) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5578, R2.1=CONF:1198-5578)</li></ol></li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>legalAuthenticator</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5579) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>time</b></tt> (CONF:5580, R2.1=CONF:1198-5580)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>signatureCode</b></tt> (CONF:5583, R2.1=CONF:1198-5583)<tt><b>/@code</b>="S" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.89 Participationsignature</tt>) (CONF:5584, R2.1=CONF:1198-5584)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5585, R2.1=CONF:1198-5585) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5586, R2.1=CONF:1198-5586)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Healthcare Provider Taxonomy (HIPAA) 2.16.840.1.114222.4.11.1066</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:17000, R2.1=CONF:1198-17000)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5589, R2.1=CONF:1198-5589)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> (CONF:5595, R2.1=CONF:1198-5595)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5597, R2.1=CONF:1198-5597) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5598, R2.1=CONF:1198-5598)</li></ol></li><li>The id <b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] @root="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:16823, R2.1=CONF:1198-16823)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>authenticator</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5607) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>time</b></tt> (CONF:5608, R2.1=CONF:1198-5608)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>signatureCode</b></tt> (CONF:5610, R2.1=CONF:1198-5610)<tt><b>/@code</b>="S" </tt> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.89 Participationsignature</tt>) (CONF:5611, R2.1=CONF:1198-5611)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5612, R2.1=CONF:1198-5612) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:5613, R2.1=CONF:1198-5613)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:16825, R2.1=CONF:1198-16825), which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet<tt> Healthcare Provider Taxonomy (HIPAA) 2.16.840.1.114222.4.11.1066</tt><b> DYNAMIC</b> (CONF:16826, R2.1=CONF:1198-16826)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:5616, R2.1=CONF:1198-5616)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>telecom</b></tt> (CONF:5622, R2.1=CONF:1198-5622)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:5624, R2.1=CONF:1198-5624) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:5625, R2.1=CONF:1198-5625)</li></ol></li><li>The id <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] @root="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:16824, R2.1=CONF:1198-16824)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>informant</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8001) <ol><li>contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> such that it  <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:9945, R2.1=CONF:1198-9945)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.101 NUCC Health Care Provider Taxonomy</tt>) (CONF:9947)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:8220)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedPerson</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8221, R2.1=CONF:1198-8221) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:8222, CONF:10420, R2.1=CONF:1198-8222)</li></ol></li><li>The id <b>SHOULD</b> include zero or one [0..1] id where id/@root ="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:9946, R2.1=CONF:1198-9946)</li></ol></li><li>contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>relatedEntity</b></tt> such that it  <ol><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>addr</b></tt> (CONF:8220)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>relatedPerson</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8221) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:8222, CONF:10420, R2.1=CONF:1198-8222)</li></ol></li></ol></li><li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: contain exactly one [1..1] assignedEntity OR exactly one [1..1] relatedEntity (CONF:8002)</li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>participant</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:10003) <ol><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>time</b></tt> (CONF:10004, R2.1=CONF:1198-10004)</li><li>Such participants, if present, <b>SHALL</b> have an associatedPerson or scopingOrganization element under participant/associatedEntity. (CONF:10006)</li><li>Unless otherwise specified by the document specific header constraints, when participant/@typeCode is IND, associatedEntity/@classCode <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet INDRoleclassCodes 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.9.33 STATIC 2011-09-30. (CONF:10007)</li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>inFulfillmentOf</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:9952) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>order</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:9953, R2.1=CONF:1198-9953) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:9954, R2.1=CONF:1198-9954)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>documentationOf</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:14835) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>serviceEvent</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:14836) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:14837, R2.1=CONF:1198-14837)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>performer</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:14839) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@typeCode</b></tt> (CONF:14840, R2.1=CONF:1198-14840)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>functionCode</b></tt> (CONF:16818), which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.88 ParticipationFunction</tt>) (CONF:16819)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:14841) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:14846, R2.1=CONF:1198-14846)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:14842), which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.6.101 NUCC Health Care Provider Taxonomy</tt>) (CONF:14843)</li><li>The id <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] @root="2.16.840.1.113883.4.6" National Provider Identifier (CONF:14847, R2.1=CONF:1198-14847)</li></ol></li></ol></li><li>effectiveTime <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] low (CONF:14838, R2.1=CONF:1198-14838)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>authorization</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:16792) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>consent</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:16793, R2.1=CONF:1198-16793) <ol><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:16794, R2.1=CONF:1198-16794)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:16795, R2.1=CONF:1198-16795)<p><lines><i>The type of consent (e.g., a consent to perform the related serviceEvent) is conveyed in consent/code.</i></lines></p></li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>statusCode</b></tt> (CONF:16797, R2.1=CONF:1198-16797)<tt><b>/@code</b>="completed" </tt><i>Completed</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:16798, R2.1=CONF:1198-16798)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>participant</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8414) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>associatedEntity</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8415) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>associatedPerson</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8415) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>name</b></tt> (CONF:9406)</li></ol></li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>inFulfillmentOf</b></tt> such that it  <p><lines><i>An inFulfillmentOf element represents the Placer Order that is either a group of orders (modeled as PlacerGroup in the Placer Order RMIM of the Orders and Observations domain) or a single order item (modeled as ObservationRequest in the same RMIM).  This optionality reflects two major approaches to the grouping of procedures as implemented in the installed base of imaging information systems.  These approaches differ in their handling of grouped procedures and how they are mapped to identifiers in the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) image and structured reporting data.  The example of a CT examination covering chest, abdomen, and pelvis will be used in the discussion below.
In the IHE Scheduled Workflow model, the Chest CT, Abdomen CT, and Pelvis CT each represent a Requested Procedure, and all three procedures are grouped under a single Filler Order.  The Filler Order number maps directly to the DICOM Accession Number in the DICOM imaging and report data.
A widely deployed alternative approach maps the requested procedure identifiers directly to the DICOM Accession Number.  The Requested Procedure ID in such implementations may or may not be different from the Accession Number, but is of little identifying importance because there is only one Requested Procedure per Accession Number.  There is no identifier that formally connects the requested procedures ordered in this group.
In both cases, inFulfillmentOf/order/id is mapped to the DICOM Accession Number in the imaging data.</i></lines></p> 
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>documentationOf</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8416) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>serviceEvent</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8431) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>@classCode</b>="ACT" </tt><i>Act</i> (CodeSystem:<tt> 2.16.840.1.113883.5.6 HL7ActClass</tt>) (CONF:8430)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>code</b></tt> (CONF:8419)<p><lines><i>The value of serviceEvent/code SHALL NOT conflict with the ClininicalDocument/code. When transforming from DICOM SR documents that do not contain a procedure code, an appropriate nullFlavor SHALL be used on serviceEvent/code.</i></lines></p></li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:8418)</li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or more [0..*] <tt><b>performer</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../PhysicianReadingStudyPerformer.dita">Physician Reading Study Performer</xref> (CONF:8422)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>relatedDocument</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8432) <p><lines><i>When a Diagnostic Imaging Report has been transformed from a DICOM SR document, relatedDocument/@typeCode SHALL be XFRM, and relatedDocument/parentDocument/id SHALL contain the SOP Instance UID of the original DICOM SR document.</i></lines></p><ol><li>The relatedDocument/id/@root attribute <b>SHALL</b> be a syntactically correct OID, and <b>SHALL NOT</b> be a UUID. (CONF:10030)</li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>componentOf</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8434) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>encompassingEncounter</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8449) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>effectiveTime</b></tt> (CONF:8437)</li><li><b>SHALL</b> contain at least one [1..*] <tt><b>id</b></tt> (CONF:8435)<p><lines><i>In the case of transformed DICOM SR documents, an appropriate null flavor MAY be used if the id is unavailable.</i></lines></p></li><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>encounterParticipant</b></tt>, where its type is <xref href="../PhysicianofRecordParticipant.dita">Physicianof Record Participant</xref> (CONF:8448)</li><li><b>MAY</b> contain zero or one [0..1] <tt><b>responsibleParty</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:8438) <ol><li><b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] <tt><b>assignedEntity</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:9407) <ol><li><b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] assignedPerson OR contain zero or one [0..1] representedOrganization (CONF:8439)</li></ol></li></ol></li><li>The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>SHALL</b> be precise to the day (CONF:10133, CONF:10127)</li><li>The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>SHOULD</b> be precise to the minute (CONF:10133, CONF:10128)</li><li>The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). <b>MAY</b> be precise to the second (CONF:10133, CONF:10129)</li><li>The content of effectiveTime conforms to US Realm Date and Time (DT.US.FIELDED) (2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.5.4). If more precise than day, <b>SHOULD</b> include time-zone offset (CONF:10133, CONF:10130)</li></ol></li></ol> 
</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain  [1..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:9484)
<ol>
<li>Conforms to <xref href="../FindingsSection.dita">Findings Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain  [0..1] <tt><b>component</b></tt> such that it  (CONF:15141)
<ol>
<li>Conforms to <xref href="../DICOMObjectCatalogSection.dita">DICOM Object Catalog Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>typeId <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] @root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3" (CONF:5250, R2.1=CONF:1198-5250)</li>
<li>typeId <b>SHALL</b> contain exactly one [1..1] @extension="POCD_HD000040" (CONF:5251, R2.1=CONF:1198-5251)</li>
<li>id <b>SHALL</b> be a globally unique identifier for the document (CONF:9991, R2.1=CONF:1198-9991)</li>
<li>code <b>SHALL</b> specify the particular kind of document (e.g. History and Physical, Discharge Summary, Progress Note). (CONF:9992, R2.1=CONF:1198-9992)</li>
<li>If setId is present versionNumber <b>SHALL</b> be present (CONF:6380, R2.1=CONF:1198-6380)</li>
<li>If versionNumber is present setId <b>SHALL</b> be present (CONF:6387, R2.1=CONF:1198-6387)</li>
<li>This code <b>SHOULD</b> contain zero or one [0..1] @code="18748-4" Diagnostic Imaging Report (CodeSystem: LOINC2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) (CONF:8409)</li>
<li>The DICOM Object Catalog section (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), if present, <b>SHALL</b> be the first section in the document Body</li>
<li>With the exception of the DICOM Object Catalog (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), all sections within the Diagnostic Imaging Report content <b>SHOULD</b> contain a title element (CONF:9409)</li>
<li>The section/code <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from LOINC or DICOM for sections not listed in the DIR Section Type Codes table (CONF:9410)</li>
<li>All sections defined in the DIR Section Type Codes table <b>SHALL</b> be top-level sections (CONF:9411)</li>
<li>A section element <b>SHALL</b> have a code element which <b>SHALL</b> contain a LOINC code or DCM code for sections which have no LOINC equivalent. This only applies to sections described inthe DIR Section Type Codes table (CONF:9412)</li>
<li>Apart from the DICOM Object Catalog (templateId 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1), all other instances of section <b>SHALL</b> contain at least one text element or one or more component elements (CONF:9413)</li>
<li>All text or component elements <b>SHALL</b> contain content. text elements <b>SHALL</b> contain PCDATA or child elements, and component elements <b>SHALL</b> contain child elements (CONF:9414)</li>
<li>The text elements (and their children) <b>MAY</b> contain Web Access to DICOM Persistent Object (WADO) references to DICOM objects by including a linkHtml element where @href is a valid WADO URL and the text content of linkHtml is the visible text of the hyperlink</li>
<li>If clinical statements are present, the section/text <b>SHALL</b> represent faithfully all such statements and <b>MAY</b> contain additional text</li>
</ol>
<section id="tableconformance"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="6" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" colwidth="3*"  /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"  /><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"  /><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="2*"  /><colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="2*"  /><colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" colwidth="3*"  /><thead> <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col5" >consol::DiagnosticImagingReport</entry>  </row>  <row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col5" >cda::clinicaldocument[cda:templateId/@root = 2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1]/</entry>  </row> <row><entry>XPath</entry><entry>Card.</entry><entry>Verb</entry><entry>Data Type</entry><entry>CONF#</entry><entry>Fixed Value</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry>code</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>CE</entry><entry>CONF:14834</entry><entry> null</entry></row> 
<row><entry>id</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>II</entry><entry>CONF:5363</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>componentOf</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>ComponentOf</entry><entry>CONF:8434</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>dICOMObjectCatalogSection</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>SHOULD</entry><entry>DICOMObjectCatalogSection</entry><entry>CONF:15141</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>documentationOf</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>DocumentationOf</entry><entry>CONF:8416</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>findingsSection</entry><entry>1..1</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>FindingsSection</entry><entry>CONF:9484</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>informant</entry><entry>0..0</entry><entry>SHALL</entry><entry>Informant12</entry><entry>CONF:8410</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>informationRecipient</entry><entry>0..*</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>InformationRecipient</entry><entry>CONF:8411</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>inFulfillmentOf</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>InFulfillmentOf</entry><entry></entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>participant1</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>Participant</entry><entry>CONF:8414</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
<row><entry>relatedDocument</entry><entry>0..1</entry><entry>MAY</entry><entry>RelatedDocument</entry><entry>CONF:8432</entry><entry> </entry></row> 
</tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<section id="contextTable"><p><table frame="all" scale="80" pgwide="1" ><tgroup cols="2" align="left" colsep = "1" rowsep = "1" > <colspec colname="col0" colnum="0" /><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" /><thead><row><entry namest="col0" nameend="col0" >Contained By</entry><entry namest="col1" nameend="col1" >Contains</entry></row></thead><tbody><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../AdvanceDirectiveObservation2.dita">Advance Directive Observation (V3)</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../AdvanceDirectiveOrganizer.dita">Advance Directive Organizer (V2)</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../CodeObservations.dita">Code Observations</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../DICOMObjectCatalogSection.dita">DICOM Object Catalog Section</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../ExternalDocumentReference.dita">External Document Reference</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../FetusSubjectContext.dita">Fetus Subject Context</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../FindingsSection.dita">Findings Section</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../ImmunizationMedicationInformation.dita">Immunization Medication Information</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../ImmunizationMedicationInformation2.dita">Immunization Medication Information2</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../MedicationInformation.dita">Medication Information</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../MedicationInformation2.dita">Medication Information2</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../ObserverContext.dita">Observer Context</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../PhysicianReadingStudyPerformer.dita">Physician Reading Study Performer</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../PhysicianReadingStudyPerformer2.dita">Physician Reading Study Performer2</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../PhysicianofRecordParticipant.dita">Physicianof Record Participant</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../PhysicianofRecordParticipant2.dita">Physicianof Record Participant2</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../PolicyActivity2.dita">Policy Activity (V3)</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../PreconditionForSubstanceAdministration.dita">Precondition For Substance Administration</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../PreconditionForSubstanceAdministration2.dita">Precondition For Substance Administration2</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../ProcedureActivityAct2.dita">Procedure Activity Act2</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../ProcedureActivityObservation2.dita">Procedure Activity Observation2</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../ProcedureActivityProcedure2.dita">Procedure Activity Procedure2</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../ProcedureContext.dita">Procedure Context</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../QuantityMeasurementObservation.dita">Quantity Measurement Observation</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../SOPInstanceObservation.dita">SOP Instance Observation</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.consol.doc/classes/ServiceEvent.html">Service Event</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.consol.doc/classes/ServiceEvent2.html">Service Event2</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../SubstanceAdministeredAct.dita">Substance Administered Act</xref></entry></row><row><entry></entry><entry><xref href="../TextObservation.dita">Text Observation</xref></entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table></p></section>
<codeblock id="example" outputclass="language-xml"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 infrastructure/cda/CDA_SDTC.xsd">
  <realmCode code="US"/>
  <realmCode code="US"/>
  <realmCode code="US"/>
  <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.1"/>
  <id root="MDHT" extension="1767709759"/>
  <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC"/>
  <title>org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.consol.impl. Diagnostic Imaging Report Impl</title>
  <effectiveTime/>
  <confidentialityCode codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.25" codeSystemName="ConfidentialityCode"/>
  <languageCode code="Code forlanguageCode"/>
  <setId root="MDHT" extension="cb0f5595-d814-4f9f-9ec0-f9a45663bc08"/>
  <versionNumber value="1"/>
  <recordTarget>
    <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
    <patientRole/>
  </recordTarget>
  <author>
    <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
    <time/>
    <assignedAuthor/>
  </author>
  <informant/>
  <custodian/>
  <informationRecipient/>
  <participant>
    <associatedEntity>
      <associatedPerson/>
    </associatedEntity>
  </participant>
  <inFulfillmentOf>
    <order/>
  </inFulfillmentOf>
  <documentationOf>
    <serviceEvent classCode="ACT">
      <id root="MDHT" extension="291623143"/>
      <code code="1692548177"/>
      <performer typeCode="PRF">
        <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.2.1"/>
      </performer>
    </serviceEvent>
  </documentationOf>
  <relatedDocument>
    <parentDocument/>
  </relatedDocument>
  <componentOf>
    <encompassingEncounter>
      <id root="MDHT" extension="501247370"/>
      <effectiveTime>
        <low value="2017"/>
        <high value="2017"/>
      </effectiveTime>
      <responsibleParty/>
      <encounterParticipant typeCode="ATND">
        <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.2.2"/>
      </encounterParticipant>
    </encompassingEncounter>
  </componentOf>
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.2"/>
          <id root="MDHT" extension="295744451"/>
          <code code="356105881"/>
          <title>TEXT FOR TITLE</title>
          <text>RkVQKQ YpupeMY SwbwCFSjx urzXe QVDYRw msjqwFZSn kVFLsFInA tWNAdQEJ OUqUS KpUPHDgG aLUkA FgQZd NUZGXsf KGkzE Lzycmq TYfKnJwD GYQQJk CbxEuK foSyW YWntDrN oJSbDv GtTpy dcmwsNrIY yBzjzMHv VVdRlXsq ZxuPxUEj UgcaJx zNgPu JWtEogzLP BQNnO YGJKopmY NjYqBiEGt rxvpyZL zrUvBl xTDRXgyn NdwflUN CbcecQ ILUzHBik VCdPBH AzShnB POYXfmv LVUsEPi dNAIDZsI HaADjV GptFx tQwyPFr RZXtuNw rvzHji FPkQTcKR 
kSepqwNs oEvARZBz QXVDDFJ LtZDcqhf brDQlZO DNpssp RZuPAqt RnsBt wcEeoG miXSeL ROWcIg FvdOFPGkm FlWTQ ToanItAj wdSLmcA bDSwh klpOqJZ okFKWlK OsHHYOX urJvhtAjs Cexxc lsjghA RaYpp AiOnKkFHi gMmtR EUxjdx VRfGHwx HONeyxuf RObOZVIwJ brhgNDvr ssUdbwoWS gxQouw kNBgy QgmuQ sTpiWhh EudEJTf SzcQCEml Nvxlu XLQvcoav ZCJcx OtifC seRNxG tWZRr wTuJa LqHwYUS BfAkZyqxS 
KYbGfg MHbmSQjXk tZhjminc pPbXlFik WGUEW wSehV TcpjNles AeYMSQXPJ OtJLspUEC OvqCOS ZSZDNlj jyLCpumb RaYHz GgkCkPES vtgLHo UPeXtB eaoYoTR SWPosJ mofopBndd nIgddEHPQ tPWAFWb uNOEHJniL fqGPh DGjtXQP xCaMs oyMye rQpNmtgu RwLZDVdWQ WCNSpV hKEWRVbs bfreVj EZWBVo lRivn XfgTPD mVdkn 
</text>
          <confidentialityCode code="1366459920"/>
          <languageCode code="Code forlanguageCode"/>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.1.1"/>
          <id root="MDHT" extension="7107956"/>
          <code code="121181" codeSystem="1.2.840.10008.2.16.4" codeSystemName="DCM" displayName="Dicom Object Catalog"/>
          <title>Dicom Object Catalog</title>
          <text>nzdDNtM nJUeRRs gdgdJwIL THnLItJ BcCBrF szphp kcaCrItxI QSCsczzu AYXfGKbc fWruuIQt aZAXZlso eILdY nCaKYCVIA AEODB hDIXd nHAYhG PMePz oCPRU LKLAi WUJJW dfrHR WYmhLH fXSQREGtm HEqcRyiWh zxqHWYX WGmCjeKQ oexbKH ZDKIGg mDvyWxLQ DVqfeOR TIXaDYuh rGkgCIvqG XqKoVo gMQsoHZ vQErB weCdRAKg 
eWIhzX FFkAuucA YvWGyU awvRM lhVtTZFow emRyKktKH TEWdpma XibDFi IbSMQuUE xlFxZ LeqkBwrXd wvMTI oiQHHtA EfHuN xogSNy CNINnNrH WmmsU bfbSm rNvEhTdH UfJfYdmjT JlKkxvNY DBPPwPC HVdSleds oerFHQD hNGrU MTDHGnwN fPgmw JsTYvQGf SEcoLifT CxTCrEtBe fzOPEATI zrXoi rzasB iXglTJKz OstHeBbO 
</text>
          <confidentialityCode code="699718959"/>
          <languageCode code="Code forlanguageCode"/>
          <entry>
            <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
              <typeId root="2.16.840.1.113883.1.3"/>
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.6.2.6"/>
              <id root="MDHT" extension="1948069038"/>
              <code code="113014" codeSystem="1.2.840.10008.2.16.4" codeSystemName="DCM"/>
              <text>Text Value</text>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="2017"/>
                <high value="2017"/>
              </effectiveTime>
              <languageCode code="Code forlanguageCode"/>
              <entryRelationship>
                <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
                  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.4.63"/>
                  <code code="113015" codeSystem="1.2.840.10008.2.16.4" codeSystemName="DCM"/>
                </act>
              </entryRelationship>
            </act>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
<section id="changes">
</section>
<p><ph id="classformalname">Diagnostic Imaging Report</ph></p>
<p id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.22.1.5</tt>]</p>
</body>
</topic>
